README.md, before:

# We:Connect

![BBSV](assets/logo_transparent-2048x635.png)

[Dansk Version](README-da.md) · [Deutsche Fassung](README-de.md)

## Summary

Under the provisional working title "We:Connect", coordinated APIs are to be developed with which

* public transport providers
* shuttle services
* car rental companies
* eBike rental companies
* private individuals
* ...

can provide their routes, availabilities, timetables, capacities and prices, and on the basis of which apps can be
can be developed that

* enable regional and supra-regional routing across provider boundaries
* allow simple bookings
* can be integrated into "village apps"
* ...

## Why Bother?

As part of the cooperation area of the town of Bredstedt with the municipalities of Breklum, Struckum and Vollstedt, the
project "[Smart Marketplace for Future Mobility](https://www.smarter-marktplatz-bredstedt.de/)" was created to address
the following questions:

* How will we get around in the countryside in ten years' time?
* How can we make mobility ecological and comfortable at the same time?
* And how is the supply of food, health services and leisure facilities in the countryside related to mobility?

It became clear very quickly that we need solutions that at least make the second car superfluous in rural areas without
restricting mobility. To achieve this, every citizen must be able to easily find out about transport alternatives.

The original idea was to create an app that summarises the regional offers. However, it quickly became clear that under
the current circumstances, there cannot be an app that solves this satisfactorily: there is a lack of standardised
interfaces.

The aim of this project is to define such an interface - or more precisely: a collection of interfaces - that is equally
open to all transport service providers and all app providers.

Commit message:

Fix - Change wording, add North Frisia

README.md, after:

# We:Connect

![BBSV](assets/logo_transparent-2048x635.png)

[Dansk Version](README-da.md) · [Deutsche Fassung](README-de.md)

## Summary

Under the provisional working title "We:Connect", coordinated APIs are to be developed with which

* public transport providers
* shuttle services
* car rental companies
* eBike rental companies
* private individuals
* ...

can provide their routes, availabilities, timetables, capacities and prices, and on the basis of which apps can be
can be developed that

* enable regional and supra-regional routing across provider boundaries
* allow simple bookings
* can be integrated into "village apps"
* ...

## Why Bother?

As part of the cooperation area of the town of Bredstedt with the municipalities of Breklum, Struckum and Vollstedt in
North Frisia in Germany, the project "[Smart Marketplace for Future Mobility](https://www.smarter-marktplatz-bredstedt.de/)" was
created to address the following questions:

* How will we get around in the countryside in ten years' time?
* How can we make mobility ecological and comfortable at the same time?
* And how is the supply of food, health services and leisure facilities in the countryside related to mobility?

It became clear very quickly that we need solutions that at least make the second car superfluous in rural areas without
restricting mobility. To achieve this, every citizen must be able to easily find out about transport alternatives.

The original idea was to create an app that summarises the regional offers. However, it quickly became clear that under
the current circumstances, there cannot be an app that solves this satisfactorily: there is a lack of standardised
interfaces.

The aim of this project is to define such an interface - or more precisely: a collection of interfaces - that is equally
open to all transport service providers and all app providers.
