resources.md, before:

[< We:Connect](README.md)

# 🇬🇧 Resources

[🇩🇰 Dansk Version](resources-da.md) · [🇩🇪 Deutsche Fassung](resources-de.md)

Obviously, we are not the first thinking about mobility data. This is a list of resources provided by third parties that
might be useful for this project.

* ## DB API Marketplace

  On the [DB API Marketplace 🇩🇪](https://developers.deutschebahn.com/db-api-marketplace/apis/), Deutsche Bahn AG is
  gradually publishing APIs in order to shape the mobility of tomorrow with interested parties.

  The portal offers interested developers central access to the Deutsche Bahn API ecosystem and ensures uncomplicated
  and future-oriented collaboration. On the DB API Marketplace, services and data can be viewed, tested and used as an
  API interface.

* ## GBFS

  The [General Bikeshare Feed Specification](https://github.com/NABSA/gbfs) (GBFS) is the open data standard for shared
  mobility. GBFS makes real-time data feeds in a uniform format publicly available online, with an emphasis on
  findability. GBFS is intended to make information publicly available online; therefore information that is personally
  identifiable is not currently and will not become part of the core specification.

* ## GTFS

  The [General Transit Feed Specification](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs) (GTFS), also known as GTFS _
  static_ or _static transit_ to differentiate it from the GTFS realtime extension, defines a common format for public
  transportation schedules and associated geographic information. GTFS "feeds" let public transit agencies publish their
  transit data and developers write applications that consume that data in an interoperable way.

  [Feeds published free of charge](https://www.gtfs.de/en/feeds/) contain the basic information necessary for routing,
  are generated on a daily basis and cover the next 7 days. The feeds are published under a Creative Commons 4.0
  licence. The publication is without guarantee for the correctness and/or completeness of the timetable data contained.

* ## HAFAS

  The [HaCon Fahrplan-AuskunftsSystem](https://docs.marudor.de/) (HAFAS) is a software for timetable information
  by the company HaCon (Hannover Consulting).

  Deutsche Bahn AG, the Austrian Federal Railways and the Swiss Federal Railways as well as numerous other European
  transport companies, for example the public transport company TPG, use HAFAS on a broad basis. In particular, it is
  used to realise online timetable information for customers.

* ## ITS Directive

  The [ITS Directive](docs/CELEX%2002010L0040-20180109%20EN%20TXT.pdf) establishes a framework to support a coordinated
  and coherent deployment and use of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) in the Union, in particular across Member
  States'
  borders, and sets out the general conditions necessary for that purpose.

* ## MDM

  [Germany’s Market Place for Mobility Data](https://www.mdm-portal.de/?lang=en) - With the MDM platform, the
  Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) offers suppliers and users of mobility data everything
  they need to move forward: A neutral B2B platform. Defined standards for data exchange. Above all, the nation’s
  biggest volume of information on traffic flows, traffic jams, road works, mobility options, parking facilities and
  more.
  [Interface Description (PDF, 🇩🇪)](docs/mdm-technische-schnittstellenbeschreibung-v2.8.0.pdf)

* ## Mobilithek

  [Germany's platform for data that move things](https://www.bmvi.de/SharedDocs/DE/Artikel/DG/mobilithek.html) - The
  Mobilithek will play a central role as a National Access Point within a comprehensive mobility data ecosystem. As a
  cloud-based infrastructure with a web portal, high-performance support for the exchange of real-time data and a
  digital space for the development of data-based apps, it will cooperate closely with the Mobility Data Space, which is
  also currently being developed, and exchange data with it. This is made possible by the International Data Space (IDS)
  technology used by both systems.

  From 2023, the MDM and the mCLOUD will gradually merge into the Mobilithek. Until then, the Mobilithek builds on the
  two platforms:

  * The [Mobility Data Marketplace (MDM)](https://www.mdm-portal.de/?lang=en) is operated by the Federal Highway
    Research Institute (BASt) on behalf of the Ministry and currently assumes the role of the National Access Point.
    The main focus is on dynamic data from the area of road traffic.
  * The [mCLOUD 🇩🇪](https://www.mcloud.de/) is the ministry's open data portal and is operated by the ITZBund on
    behalf of the ministry. All data in the mCLOUD can be openly reused. Much of the data comes from authorities of
    the Ministry, from the mFUND funding programme and from open data portals of the federal states and
    municipalities.

  [Flyer: Mobility data for end-to-end travel information services 🇩🇪](docs/multimodale-reisefunktionen-flyer.pdf)

* ## Mobility Data Specification

  The [Mobility Data Specification](https://github.com/openmobilityfoundation/mobility-data-specification) (MDS), a
  project of the [Open Mobility Foundation](http://www.openmobilityfoundation.org/) (OMF), is a set of Application
  Programming Interfaces (APIs) focused on shared mobility services such as dock-less scooters, bicycles, mopeds, and
  car-share, and inspired by projects like GTFS and GBFS. MDS is a digital tool that helps cities better manage
  transportation in the public right of way, standardizing communication and data-sharing between cities and private
  mobility providers, allowing cities to share and validate policy digitally, and enabling vehicle management and better
  outcomes for residents.

  MDS is a key piece of digital infrastructure that supports the effective implementation of mobility policies in cities
  around the world. For a high level overview and visuals, see
  the [About MDS](https://www.openmobilityfoundation.org/about-mds/) page on the OMF website.

  [Mobility Data Specification für Kommunen, erklärt 🇩🇪](https://radforschung.org/log/mds-fuer-kommunen-erklaert/)

* ## MobilityData

  To provide reliable and intuitive travel directions, public agencies, cities, and private companies need shared
  languages and tools. [MobilityData](https://mobilitydata.org) meets that need: it is a non-profit organization that
  improves and extends data formats, making them easier to use through training, documentation, open-source software,
  online services, and more. They also create spaces for knowledge exchange, bringing together public and private
  stakeholders to build the mobility of today and tomorrow.

* ## Smart Data Models

  The [Smart Data Models Program](https://smartdatamodels.org) is a collaborative initiative impulsed by FIWARE
  Foundation, TMForum, IUDX, and OASC many other people and organizations contributing to the data models.
  These data models are open-licensed allowing free use, free modification, and free sharing of modifications.
  The models include entity descriptions in the area of [Smart Cities](https://github.com/smart-data-models/SmartCities)
  , [transportation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation)
  , [urban mobility](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.UrbanMobility) and many more.

Commit message:

Add link to article: What you need to know about the renewed Passenger Transport Act

resources.md, after:

[< We:Connect](README.md)

# 🇬🇧 Resources

[🇩🇰 Dansk Version](resources-da.md) · [🇩🇪 Deutsche Fassung](resources-de.md)

Obviously, we are not the first thinking about mobility data. This is a list of resources provided by third parties that
might be useful for this project.

* ## DB API Marketplace

  On the [DB API Marketplace 🇩🇪](https://developers.deutschebahn.com/db-api-marketplace/apis/), Deutsche Bahn AG is
  gradually publishing APIs in order to shape the mobility of tomorrow with interested parties.

  The portal offers interested developers central access to the Deutsche Bahn API ecosystem and ensures uncomplicated
  and future-oriented collaboration. On the DB API Marketplace, services and data can be viewed, tested and used as an
  API interface.

* ## GBFS

  The [General Bikeshare Feed Specification](https://github.com/NABSA/gbfs) (GBFS) is the open data standard for shared
  mobility. GBFS makes real-time data feeds in a uniform format publicly available online, with an emphasis on
  findability. GBFS is intended to make information publicly available online; therefore information that is personally
  identifiable is not currently and will not become part of the core specification.

* ## GTFS

  The [General Transit Feed Specification](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs) (GTFS), also known as GTFS _
  static_ or _static transit_ to differentiate it from the GTFS realtime extension, defines a common format for public
  transportation schedules and associated geographic information. GTFS "feeds" let public transit agencies publish their
  transit data and developers write applications that consume that data in an interoperable way.

  [Feeds published free of charge](https://www.gtfs.de/en/feeds/) contain the basic information necessary for routing,
  are generated on a daily basis and cover the next 7 days. The feeds are published under a Creative Commons 4.0
  licence. The publication is without guarantee for the correctness and/or completeness of the timetable data contained.

* ## HAFAS

  The [HaCon Fahrplan-AuskunftsSystem](https://docs.marudor.de/) (HAFAS) is a software for timetable information
  by the company HaCon (Hannover Consulting).

  Deutsche Bahn AG, the Austrian Federal Railways and the Swiss Federal Railways as well as numerous other European
  transport companies, for example the public transport company TPG, use HAFAS on a broad basis. In particular, it is
  used to realise online timetable information for customers.

* ## ITS Directive

  The [ITS Directive](docs/CELEX%2002010L0040-20180109%20EN%20TXT.pdf) establishes a framework to support a coordinated
  and coherent deployment and use of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) in the Union, in particular across Member
  States'
  borders, and sets out the general conditions necessary for that purpose.

* ## MDM

  [Germany’s Market Place for Mobility Data](https://www.mdm-portal.de/?lang=en) - With the MDM platform, the
  Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) offers suppliers and users of mobility data everything
  they need to move forward: A neutral B2B platform. Defined standards for data exchange. Above all, the nation’s
  biggest volume of information on traffic flows, traffic jams, road works, mobility options, parking facilities and
  more.
  [Interface Description (PDF, 🇩🇪)](docs/mdm-technische-schnittstellenbeschreibung-v2.8.0.pdf)

* ## Mobilithek

  [Germany's platform for data that move things](https://www.bmvi.de/SharedDocs/DE/Artikel/DG/mobilithek.html) - The
  Mobilithek will play a central role as a National Access Point within a comprehensive mobility data ecosystem. As a
  cloud-based infrastructure with a web portal, high-performance support for the exchange of real-time data and a
  digital space for the development of data-based apps, it will cooperate closely with the Mobility Data Space, which is
  also currently being developed, and exchange data with it. This is made possible by the International Data Space (IDS)
  technology used by both systems.

  From 2023, the MDM and the mCLOUD will gradually merge into the Mobilithek. Until then, the Mobilithek builds on the
  two platforms:

  * The [Mobility Data Marketplace (MDM)](https://www.mdm-portal.de/?lang=en) is operated by the Federal Highway
    Research Institute (BASt) on behalf of the Ministry and currently assumes the role of the National Access Point.
    The main focus is on dynamic data from the area of road traffic.
  * The [mCLOUD 🇩🇪](https://www.mcloud.de/) is the ministry's open data portal and is operated by the ITZBund on
    behalf of the ministry. All data in the mCLOUD can be openly reused. Much of the data comes from authorities of
    the Ministry, from the mFUND funding programme and from open data portals of the federal states and
    municipalities.

  [Flyer: Mobility data for end-to-end travel information services 🇩🇪](docs/multimodale-reisefunktionen-flyer.pdf)<br>
  [Article: What you need to know about the renewed Passenger Transport Act 🇩🇪](https://emmett.io/article/regeln-inhalte-personenbefoerderungsgesetz-pbefg)

* ## Mobility Data Specification

  The [Mobility Data Specification](https://github.com/openmobilityfoundation/mobility-data-specification) (MDS), a
  project of the [Open Mobility Foundation](http://www.openmobilityfoundation.org/) (OMF), is a set of Application
  Programming Interfaces (APIs) focused on shared mobility services such as dock-less scooters, bicycles, mopeds, and
  car-share, and inspired by projects like GTFS and GBFS. MDS is a digital tool that helps cities better manage
  transportation in the public right of way, standardizing communication and data-sharing between cities and private
  mobility providers, allowing cities to share and validate policy digitally, and enabling vehicle management and better
  outcomes for residents.

  MDS is a key piece of digital infrastructure that supports the effective implementation of mobility policies in cities
  around the world. For a high level overview and visuals, see
  the [About MDS](https://www.openmobilityfoundation.org/about-mds/) page on the OMF website.

  [Mobility Data Specification für Kommunen, erklärt 🇩🇪](https://radforschung.org/log/mds-fuer-kommunen-erklaert/)

* ## MobilityData

  To provide reliable and intuitive travel directions, public agencies, cities, and private companies need shared
  languages and tools. [MobilityData](https://mobilitydata.org) meets that need: it is a non-profit organization that
  improves and extends data formats, making them easier to use through training, documentation, open-source software,
  online services, and more. They also create spaces for knowledge exchange, bringing together public and private
  stakeholders to build the mobility of today and tomorrow.

* ## Smart Data Models

  The [Smart Data Models Program](https://smartdatamodels.org) is a collaborative initiative impulsed by FIWARE
  Foundation, TMForum, IUDX, and OASC many other people and organizations contributing to the data models.
  These data models are open-licensed allowing free use, free modification, and free sharing of modifications.
  The models include entity descriptions in the area of [Smart Cities](https://github.com/smart-data-models/SmartCities)
  , [transportation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation)
  , [urban mobility](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.UrbanMobility) and many more.
